# 174. [Dungeon Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/dungeon-game/description/)

|  Category  |  Difficulty   | Likes | Dislikes |
| :--------: | :-----------: | :---: | :------: |
| algorithms | Hard (27.89%) |  885  |    21    |

<details open="" style="color: rgb(212, 212, 212); font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, &quot;Segoe WPC&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Ubuntu, &quot;Droid Sans&quot;, sans-serif, &quot;Microsoft Yahei UI&quot;; font-size: 14px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial;"><summary><strong>Tags</strong></summary><p><a href="https://leetcode.com/tag/binary-search" title="https://leetcode.com/tag/binary-search" style="color: var(--vscode-textLink-foreground); text-decoration: none;"><code style="color: var(--vscode-textPreformat-foreground); font-family: Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, &quot;Droid Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace, &quot;Droid Sans Fallback&quot;; font-size: 1em; line-height: 1.357em; white-space: pre-wrap;">binary-search</code></a><span>&nbsp;</span>|<span>&nbsp;</span><a href="https://leetcode.com/tag/dynamic-programming" title="https://leetcode.com/tag/dynamic-programming" style="color: var(--vscode-textLink-foreground); text-decoration: none;"><code style="color: var(--vscode-textPreformat-foreground); font-family: Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, &quot;Droid Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace, &quot;Droid Sans Fallback&quot;; font-size: 1em; line-height: 1.357em; white-space: pre-wrap;">dynamic-programming</code></a></p></details>
<details open="" style="color: rgb(212, 212, 212); font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, &quot;Segoe WPC&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Ubuntu, &quot;Droid Sans&quot;, sans-serif, &quot;Microsoft Yahei UI&quot;; font-size: 14px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial;"><summary><strong>Companies</strong></summary><p><code style="color: var(--vscode-textPreformat-foreground); font-family: Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, &quot;Droid Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace, &quot;Droid Sans Fallback&quot;; font-size: 1em; line-height: 1.357em; white-space: pre-wrap;">microsoft</code></p></details>
The demons had captured the princess (**P**) and imprisoned her in the bottom-right corner of a dungeon. The dungeon consists of M x N rooms laid out in a 2D grid. Our valiant knight (**K**) was initially positioned in the top-left room and must fight his way through the dungeon to rescue the princess.

The knight has an initial health point represented by a positive integer. If at any point his health point drops to 0 or below, he dies immediately.

Some of the rooms are guarded by demons, so the knight loses health (*negative* integers) upon entering these rooms; other rooms are either empty (*0's*) or contain magic orbs that increase the knight's health (*positive* integers).

In order to reach the princess as quickly as possible, the knight decides to move only rightward or downward in each step.

 

**Write a function to determine the knight's minimum initial health so that he is able to rescue the princess.**

For example, given the dungeon below, the initial health of the knight must be at least **7** if he follows the optimal path `RIGHT-> RIGHT -> DOWN -> DOWN`.

| -2 (K) | -3   | 3      |
| ------ | ---- | ------ |
| -5     | -10  | 1      |
| 10     | 30   | -5 (P) |

 

**Note:**

- The knight's health has no upper bound.
- Any room can contain threats or power-ups, even the first room the knight enters and the bottom-right room where the princess is imprisoned.

